translate: basic/divide-and-conquer.md (#122)
OI-wiki/i18n: docs/basic/divide-and-conquer.md

author: fudonglai, AngelKitty, labuladong

Last translated with upstream [08eb0c5](https://github.com/OI-wiki/OI-wiki/commit/08eb0c53b1ad55b518b0f5f7a569c25b8c1215b2#diff-f6f59ea091666854504b33243563a98ec55edf8f4c6a26dec1b2726479de41b4)

The article will introduce difference and application of recursive algorithm and divide-and-conquer algorithm

## Introduction

In computer science and math, recursion is method by using functions that call themselves from within their own definition. Additionally in computer science it also refers to a method of solving problem by repeatedly decomposing problem into sub-problems of the same type as the original.

From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divide-and-conquer_algorithm):

> > In computer science, divide and conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. A divide-and-conquer algorithm recursively breaks down a problem into two or more sub-problems of the same or related type, until these become simple enough to be solved directly. The solutions to the sub-problems are then combined to give a solution to the original problem. <!---中文显然就是抄英文wiki的-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In computer science, divide and conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. A divide-and-conquer algorithm recursively breaks down a problem into two or more sub-problems of the same or related type, until these become simple enough to be solved directly. The solutions to the sub-problems are then combined to give a solution to the original problem. 
```

## Detailed Introduction

### Recursion

> > To understand recursion, you must first understand recursion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To understand recursion, you must first understand what recursion is.
```

Author: 找到的英语原文如此

参考：https://medium.com/@leog7one/to-understand-recursion-you-must-first-understand-recursion-recursion-explained-c574245cf788

Author: 不如这里加个Ref？

Author: 可

> The fundamental idea of recursion is a function call itself directly or indirectly, so that the original problem transforms into many smaller size sub-problems with similar properties. While solving problems it only needs to focus on how to decompose original problems to eligible sub-problems without too much attention about how it is solved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fundamental idea of recursion is a function calling itself directly or indirectly, so that the original problem transforms into many sub-problems with similar properties but smaller size. When solving problems, we only need to focus on how to decompose original problems to proper sub-problems, but not too much attention on how it is solved.
```

> Here is some examples may be helpful for understanding recursion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples that may be helpful for understanding recursion:
```

1. [What is recursion?](./divide-and-conquer.md)

> 2. Q: How to sort a pile of numbers? A: Decompose them into two halves. First sort left half and then right half, and finally merge them into one array. As for how to sort left and right halves, please read this paragraph again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Q: How to sort a sequence of numbers? A: Decompose them into two halves. First sort left half and then right half, and finally merge them into one array. As for how to sort left and right halves, please read this example again.
```

3. Q: How old are you this year? A: My age in last year add one year, and I am born in 1999.
4. [Google's example to understand recursion](https://www.google.com/search?q=recursion) ![](images/divide-and-conquer-1.png)

> Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number:[^ref1] $1$ is a natural number, and every nature number has a successor, which is also a natural number.<!---Discuss thread: https://t.me/c/1344172945/110421-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number[^ref1]: $1$ is a natural number, and every natural number has a successor which is also a natural number.
```

> Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number:[^ref1] $1$ is a natural number, and every nature number has a successor, which is also a natural number.<!---Discuss thread: https://t.me/c/1344172945/110421-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number[^ref1]: $1$ is a natural number, and every natural number has a successor which is also a natural number.
```

> Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number:[^ref1] $1$ is a natural number, and every nature number has a successor, which is also a natural number.<!---Discuss thread: https://t.me/c/1344172945/110421-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursion is very common in mathematics. For example, in set theory, we have the following definition of natural number[^ref1]: $1$ is a natural number, and every natural number has a successor which is also a natural number.
```

> Recursive codes have two most important features: terminating case and recursive case<!---使用https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recursion_(computer_science)#Recursive_functions_and_algorithms中的措辞-->. The job of recursive case is to solve sub-problems, while terminating case defines result of shortest sub-problem 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursive codes have two most important features: terminating case and recursive case. The job of recursive case is to solve sub-problems, while terminating case defines result of smallest sub-problem.
```
> 使用https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recursion_(computer_science)#Recursive_functions_and_algorithms中的措辞

这个可以加到 Ref 里？

Author: ref什么的应该没必要吧pwp

Reviewer: > ref什么的应该没必要吧pwp

awa
那删掉注释就好了

```cpp
int func(some_type input_value) {

>   if (is_terminating_case) return result_of_shortest_sub_problem;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (is_terminating_case) return result_of_smallest_sub_problem;
```

Author: 又是紫菜

  return func(smaller_size);
}
```

#### Reasons to Write Recursion

> 1.  Code will be more readable with a clearer structure. E.g., different implementation of [merge sort](./merge-sort.md)：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Code will be more readable with a more clear structure. E.g., different implementation of [merge sort](./merge-sort.md):
```

    void merge_sort(vector<T> a) {
      int n = a.size();
      for (int seg = 1; seg < n; seg = seg + seg)
        for (int start = 0; start < n - seg; start += seg + seg)
          merge(a, start, start + seg - 1, std::min(start + seg + seg - 1, n - 1));
    }

    // Implementation with recursion
    template <typename T>
    void merge_sort(vector<T> a,3int front, int end) {
      if (front >= end) return;
      int mid = front + (end - front) / 2;
      merge_sort(a, front, mid);
      merge_sort(a, mid + 1, end);
      merge(a, front, mid, end);
    }
    ```

    ```python
    # Python Version
    # Implementation without recursion
    def merge_sort(a):
      n = len(a)
      seg, start = 1, 0
      while seg < n:
          while start < n - seg:
              merge(a, start, start + seg - 1, min(start + seg + seg - 1, n - 1))
              start = start + seg + seg
          seg = seg + seg
      
    #Implementation with recursion
    def merge_sort(a, front, end):
      if front >= end:
          return
      mid = front + (end - front) / 2
      merge_sort(a, front, mid)
      merge_sort(a, mid + 1, end)
      merge(a, front, mid, end)
    ```

>     Obviously, the recursive version of code is easier to understand than the non-recursive version, which is clear at a glance: sort left half first and then right half then finally merge two halves into one. However, the non-recursive version is unintelligible, full of incomprehensible details of edge computing and too buggy to debug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Obviously, the recursive code is easier to understand than the non-recursive version, being clear at a glance: sort left half first and then right half then finally merge two halves into one. However, the non-recursive version is unintelligible, full of incomprehensible details of edge computing and hard to debug.
```

> 2. Learning how to analyze the structure of problem by exercising. If you are familiar with coding recursive programs, you will sharply find out the feature that a problem can be discomposed into similar sub-problem, and then solve it efficiently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Learning how to analyze the structure of problem by exercising. If you are familiar with coding recursive programs, you will sharply find out the feature that a problem can be discomposed into similar sub-problem, and then solve it efficiently.
```

#### Disadvantages of Recursion

> During executing programs, recursions are implemented by call stack. Every function calling will add a frame in the stack, and every return will do the opposite. However the size of call stack is not infinite. Too many of recursions will lead to the consequence of stack overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While executing programs, recursions are implemented by call stack. Every function call adds a frame in the stack, and every return does the opposite. However the size of call stack is, in some cases, not infinite. Too many of recursions may lead to stack overflow.
```

Author: 为什么换时态喵？

Reviewer: > 为什么换时态喵？

add to stack 是一般规律？

Author: Okay.

> Obviously sometimes recursion is efficient, such as merge sort. But **sometimes it is inefficient**, such as counting hairs of Sun Wukong[^ref2]. Call stack will consume extra space, while simple iteration won't. For the example problem: You are given a head of link table, and you are asked to calculate the length of the link table. Here are two different implementations: 

Reviewer: > such as counting hairs of Sun Wukong
See [Line -18](https://github.com/OI-wiki/i18n/pull/122/files#diff-f6f59ea091666854504b33243563a98ec55edf8f4c6a26dec1b2726479de41b4L18) but was deleted.
原文问题 pending

Author: ```md
[^ref2]: Q: How many hairs does Sun Wukong have? A: One hair plus the rest of his hairs.
```
这样改是否可？

Reviewer: 我觉得直接在上面那串例子加一个数 hair 就行了

Author: 可

```cpp
// Typical iteration implementation
int size(Node *head) {
  int size = 0;
  for (Node *p = head; p != nullptr; p = p->next) size++;
  return size;
}

// ... or recursion implementation
int size_recursion(Node *head) {
  if (head == nullptr) return 0;
  return size_recursion(head->next) + 1;
}
```

![\[Comparison between two implementation (with clang 10.0 and O1 optimization).\](https://quick-bench.com/q/rZ7jWPmSdltparOO5ndLgmS9BVc)](images/divide-and-conquer-2.png "[Comparison between two implementation (with clang 10.0 and O1 optimization).](https://quick-bench.com/q/rZ7jWPmSdltparOO5ndLgmS9BVc)")

#### Optimization of Recursion

Main articles: [Optimization of searching](../search/opt.md) and [Memorized searching](../dp/memo.md)

> More elementary level of recursion implementation may have too many recursions, which may lead to time out. This is when recursion implementation need to be optimized. [^ref3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Straightforward recursion implementations may have too many recursions, which may lead to timeouts. This is when recursion implementations need to be optimized. [^ref3]
```

### Divide and Conquer

> Divide and Conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. Process of algorithms based on it can be divided into three parts: divide, conquer, and combine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Divide and Conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. Process of algorithms based on it can be divided into three parts executed in sequence: divide, conquer, and combine.
```
原文有个箭头

> Divide and Conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. Process of algorithms based on it can be divided into three parts: divide, conquer, and combine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Divide and Conquer is an algorithm design paradigm. Process of algorithms based on it can be divided into three parts executed in sequence: divide, conquer, and combine.
```
原文有个箭头

Author: 个人认为这里不必要使用箭头，因为已经表达了相同的关系

1. Divide: Decompose original problem into two or more similar sub-problems.
2. Conquer: After decomposing problems into some easily solvable bound, solve the sub-problem recursively until solved.

> 3. Combine: Combine results from sub-problems to obtain final results of original problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Combine: Combine results from sub-problems to obtain the final result of original problem.
```

> Generally, problems which can be solved with divide and conquer paradigm have these features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, problems that can be solved with divide and conquer paradigm have these features:
```

> - The problem can be easily solved when its size is down to a certain level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The problem can be easily solved when its size is small enough.
```

- The problem can be decomposed into several sub-problems with smaller size, i.e., the problem has the property of optimal substructure. Results of sub-problems decomposed from original problem can be used and combined into results of original problem.
- Sub-problems decomposed from original problem are independent to each other, i.e., Sub-problems do not contain common sub-problems between them.

???+warning "Warning"
    If sub-problems are not independent, then algorithms using divide-and-conquer paradigm need to solve common sub-problems repeatedly. Thus, unnecessary works would be done. Under such circumstances it is better to use [dynamic programming](../dp/basic.md) rather than divide-and-conquer paradigm.

Let take merge sort as an example. Assume we have a function named `merge_sort` as an implementation of merge sort. The job of this function is **to sort an input array**. The problem is obviously can be decomposed. Sorting an array is equivalent to sorting two halves of this array, then combine them to one.

```cpp

> // This block of code has been simplified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Simplified code block
```

> Let take merge sort as an example. Assume we have a function named `merge_sort` as an implementation of merge sort. The job of this function is **to sort an input array**. The problem is obviously can be decomposed. Sorting an array is equal to sorting two halves of this array, then combine these to one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let take merge sort as an example. Assume we have a function named `merge_sort` as an implementation of merge sort. The job of this function is **to sort an input array**. The problem is obviously can be decomposed. Sorting an array is equivalent to sorting two halves of this array, then combine them to one.
```

void merge_sort(type* an_array) {
  if (is_easy_to_process) return;
  merge_sort(left_half);
  merge_sort(right_half);
  merge(left_half, right_half);
}
```

> If we call the function with half of the array, then after processing this half of array will become sorted. We can notice that `merge_sort` is similar with template of post-order traversal of binary tree. Like the three parts of divide and conquer mentioned before, firstly decompose left and right, then process their combination. Combining is unstacking, which is equal to post-order traversal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we call the function with half of the array, then after processing this half of array will become sorted. We can notice that `merge_sort` is similar to the template of post-order traversal of binary tree. Like the three parts of divide and conquer mentioned before, firstly decompose left and right, then process their combination. Combining is unstacking, which is equivalent to post-order traversal.
```

> The implementation of function `merge` is same to implementation that combines two ordered lint table into one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of function `merge` is same to implementation that combines two ordered linked lists into one.
```

Author: 紫菜了

## Key points

### Keys of Writing Recursion

> **Understand a function's purpose and believe it can finish the job. DO NOT jump into the function for discovering more details,** or you will cannot help yourself from getting out from the infinite details. <!---人脑能压几个栈啊。-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Understand a function's purpose and believe it can finish the job. DO NOT jump into the function for discovering more details,** or you will may be unable to get out of the infinite details, since human is not so good at maintaining a stack in mind.
```
🤔  这样可吗

Author: 可 thx

}
```

This block of code is enough to finish any binary tree. For the recursive function `traverse(root)`, you just need to believe that it can traverse the whole tree with one root node `root`. So, it only needs to pass the left and right sub-nodes of the node to the function again. 

> The same code design can be extended for traversing any tree data structure. However, for the tree it is obviously that it doesn't have in-order traversal.

Reviewer: :thinking:

Author: 思考 too

Reviewer 2: 你们用的是啥上古版本的原文……

Author: 一年前的？然后以最新的为准

Reviewer: > 你们用的是啥上古版本的原文……

目前原文参照的是新文件头部那个 commit 下面的

```cpp
void traverse(TreeNode* root) {
  if (root == nullptr) return;
  for (auto child : root->children) traverse(child);
}
```

## Difference

### Recursion versus Enumeration

> The difference is, enumeration is decomposing the problem horizontally and solving them, while recursion is vertically by braking it down level-by-level.

Author: erhhh what size

> The difference is, enumeration is decomposing the problem horizontally and solving them, while recursion is vertically by braking it down level-by-level.

Reviewer: 就是处理的问题的大小?

> The difference is, enumeration is decomposing the problem horizontally and solving them, while recursion is vertically by braking it down level-by-level.

Author: 嗯...那么哪里需要改呢

> The difference is, enumeration is decomposing the problem horizontally and solving them, while recursion is vertically by braking it down level-by-level.

Reviewer: 这句话 qs 不太好写

      if (root == nullptr) return 0;
      return count(root, sum) + pathSum(root->left, sum) +
             pathSum(root->right, sum);
    }
    
    int count(TreeNode *node, int sum) {
      if (node == nullptr) return 0;
      return (node->val == sum) + count(node->left, sum - node->val) +
             count(node->right, sum - node->val);
    }
    ```

??? note "Explanation"
    The problem itself seems to be complex, but the code is very simple.
    
    First of all, to recursively solve a problem of tree data structure, it is required to traverse the whole tree. So the template of tree traversal, which is separately recursively call the function with left and right sub-tree, should appear in the given main function `pathSum`. So, for each nodes, what should they do? They should count how many eligible path for itself and it's sub-tree. Then, the problem is solved.
    
    According to the tricks mentioned before, we have a clear definition for the job of each recursive function based on the analysis.
    
    Function `pathSum`: Given a node and a target value. Return the number of paths whose the sum is target value in the tree rooted at this given node.
    

>     Function `count`: Given a node and a target value. Return the number of paths with the node as the beginning of path, whose the sum is target value, in the tree rooted at this given node.

Reviewer: Given 后面用逗号吧

in the tree with given node as root?

Author: 咱得找点reference

Author: hmmm 改成 pass？

Function `pathSum`: Pass a node and a target value and return the number of paths whose the sum is target value in the tree with given node as root

Reviewer: Pass -> Give?

        ```cpp
        int pathSum(TreeNode *root, int sum) {
          if (root == nullptr) return 0;
          int pathImLeading = count(root, sum);  // Paths with the node itself as beginning node.
          int leftPathSum = pathSum(root->left, sum);  // Total number of paths on the left. (Believe it can return expected results.)
          int rightPathSum =
              pathSum(root->right, sum);  // Total number of paths on the right. (Believe it can return expected results.)
          return leftPathSum + rightPathSum + pathImLeading;
        }
        int count(TreeNode *node, int sum) {
          if (node == nullptr) return 0;
          // Does this node itself be treated as an independent path?
          int isMe = (node->val == sum) ? 1 : 0;
          // How many paths on the left with the argument `sum` as `sum - node.val`?
          int leftNode = count(node->left, sum - node->val);
          // How many paths on the right with the argument `sum` as `sum - node.val`?
          int rightNode = count(node->right, sum - node->val);
          return isMe + leftNode + rightNode;  // Return the total number.
        }
        ```
    

>     As we mentioned before: **Understand a function's purpose and believe it can do the jub.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As we mentioned before: **Understand a function's purpose and believe it can do the job.**
```

    
    In summary, the function `pathSum` offers a template of traversing a binary tree. While traversing it calls the function `count` on every node. The function `count` is also a traversal of binary tree. Its job is to find the path whose the sum is target value with the node itself as beginning.[^ref4]

## Exercise

- [LeetCode's Introduction to Algorithms Recursion I](https://leetcode.com/explore/learn/card/recursion-i/)
- [LeetCode's problems with the tag divide and conquer](https://leetcode.com/tag/divide-and-conquer/)

## References and Footnotes

[^ref1]: Assume natural numbers count from $1$.
[^ref2]: Sun Wukong is a character in Chinese mythology. As described in *Journey to the West* he has 84,000 recyclable hairs, which can be considered as countless. 

> [^ref3]: [labuladong 的算法小抄 - 递归详解](https://labuladong.gitbook.io/algo/suan-fa-si-wei-xi-lie/di-gui-xiang-jie)

Reviewer: Chinese link?
